# pyFoF
Python package to perform group finding in redshift surveys.

## Installation

pyFoF will soon be pip installable. Once pip installation is announced, one can simply run,

```
pip install pyFoF
```

Note that it is important to make sure the package is spelled correctly and with proper case sensitivity so as to not conflict with similarly named packages in other domain areas.


## How PyFoF Works

Pyfof finds galaxy groups using a modified version of the friends-of-friends algorithm (Huchra et. al., 1982). This is the same modified version which was used to create the 2MRS galaxy-group catalog (Lambert et. al., 2020). This modified version tries to correct for two main short-commings of the original friends-of-friends algorithm: The over-reliance on the---ultimately unjustifiable---pair of linking lengths, and the fact that the order in which the algorithm is run results in different outputs.

The modified version runs the original algorithm multiple times and averages the results using graph-theory, but varies the linking lengths for each run. This allows the algorithm to instead build a group cataog by using an area of parameter space instead of trying to justify any particular set of linking lengths. Each run of the original algorithm produces a group-catalog and these group catalogs are used to build one master graph where each node represents a galaxy and each edge represents how many times that galaxy was found in a group with the connecting galaxy. Once this main graph has been generated, a selection can be performed, removing all edges below a certain threshold. This threshold is left to the user to decide. Lambert et. al., (2020) justified a 0.5 cut. Once the cut is down the final group catalog is generated by finding all connected subgraphs of the main graph and only selecting groups with 3 or more members.
